Accessible emails (#315)
springernature/frontend-playbook: accessibility/accessibility-in-emails.md

# Accessibility in emails

This info sits alongside our general guide to writing emails at ????.

## Layout

- Rich visual emails typically use tables for layout.

> - ??? Setting `role="presentation"` seems like a good idea, but some ppl recommend against it. 

Reviewer: people really recommend against it?! wow. why?

Author: Oh wait no, this is me getting confused with another ARIA suggestion. It looks good.

## Specify a language

- ??? Not sure if this makes a difference. Would put it in by default, but need to check if it's harmful.

## Alternative text

- Marketing emails tend to make heavy use of images.
- Alt text should be used just the same as on a web site
- If the image conveys meaning, add an alt description.

> - If the image is purely presentational, add an empty alt attribute.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the image is an image of text, the alt attribute must contain that same text. 
```

## Use logical source order

- Use the logical source order for the language you are writing in.
- For most western languages, English included, this is left to right and top to bottom.
- This includes the table cells and rows used for email layout.

## Use semantic content

> - Pre-HTML5 elemets `<p>` and `<h1>`, `<h2>`, etc are a good bet.

Reviewer 2: `elemets`

## Intro

Accessibility in emails can be summarised with 3 key points:

1. Accessible emails allow you to reach a wider audience.
1. Writing and visual design are key components of an accessible email campaign.
1. Email templates can be made immediately more accessible with a few simple coding techniques.

Creating accessible emails are not fundamentally different from creating accessible websites.

Here are the few differing constraints and techniques that should be considered.

## Layout

- Rich visual emails typically use tables for layout.
- This is because email clients use old and conservative browser engines that do not cope well nor consistently with CSS-based layouts.
- Using ARIA to set `role="presentation"` on layout tables will help prevent them being seen as data tables by screen readers.

## Specify a language

- Setting the language of the email on the root element will allow assistive technology to use the appropriate language profile.

## Alternative text

- Marketing emails tend to make heavy use of images.
- Alt text should be used the same as on a web site
- If the image conveys meaning, add an alt description.

> - If the image is purely presentational, add an empty alt attribute to allow the screenreader to skip it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- If the image is purely presentational, add an empty alt attribute (`alt=""`) to allow the screenreader to skip it.
```

- If the image is an image of text, the alt attribute must contain that same text.

> - Never leave an image without an alt tag (empty of filled) as the assistive tech will read out the filename instead.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Never leave an image without an alt attribute as the assistive tech will read out the filename instead. If you're sure the image doesn't need alt text, use an empty alt attribute (`alt=""`). 
```

Could also phrase this by adding an item to the top of the list that says "all images must have an alt attribute, that can be empty or filled" 🤔

# Accessibility in emails

> This info sits alongside our general guide to writing emails at ????.

Author: Yeah, removed this for now as I don't have time to write a general guide to emails. 😭

## Intro

Accessibility in emails can be summarised with 3 key points:

1. Accessible emails allow you to reach a wider audience.

> 1. Writing and visual design are key components of an accessible email campaign.

Author: I've updated that point to hopefully resolve this. Can you take a look pls?

1. Email templates can be made immediately more accessible with a few simple coding techniques.

Creating accessible emails are not fundamentally different from creating accessible websites.

Here are the few differing constraints and techniques that should be considered.

## Layout

- Rich visual emails typically use tables for layout.
- This is because email clients use old and conservative browser engines that do not cope well nor consistently with CSS-based layouts.
- Using ARIA to set `role="presentation"` on layout tables will help prevent them being seen as data tables by screen readers.

## Specify a language

- Setting the language of the email on the root element will allow assistive technology to use the appropriate language profile.

## Alternative text

> - Marketing emails tend to make heavy use of images.

Reviewer 2: By the time I was reading this, I've already forgotten that this was a list of techniques _and constraints_ so I thought "is this a good thing?"

It may make more sense to have the constraint as an introduction to why whe use those techniques, by simply removing it from the list, e.g.

```
## Alternative text

Marketing emails tend to make heavy use of images.

- Alt text should be used as it would be on a web site
- [...]
```

Author: I like this idea. I've updated the sections to be constraint first, and then some solutions afterwards.

> - Alt text should be used as it would be on a web site

Reviewer 2: Missing full stop?

- If the image conveys meaning, add an alt description.
- If the image is purely presentational, add an empty alt attribute (`alt=""`) to allow the screenreader to skip it.
- If the image is an image of text, the alt attribute must contain that same text.
- Never leave an image without an alt attribute as the assistive tech will read out the filename instead. If you're sure the image doesn't need alt text, use an empty alt attribute (`alt=""`). 
- Do not use alt text to prompt the user to enable images in their email client.

> ## Use logical source order

Reviewer: Maybe move the logical source order section up a bit so it goes directly below the "specify a language" section?

- Use the logical source order for the language you are writing in.
- For most western languages, English included, this is left to right and top to bottom.
- This includes the table cells and rows used for email layout.

## Use semantic content

- Pre-HTML5 elements `<p>` and `<h1>`, `<h2>`, etc are a good bet.

## Avoid HTML5 tags

- Anything that appeared in the HTML5 spec tends to get stripped by more conservative email clients.

## Link back to browser version

> - Reliability of rendering in clients can be poor, so always have a public URL available that contains a version of the email.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Reliability of rendering in clients can be poor, so always have a public URL available that displays an HTML version of the email.
```
